Modern English:

Amendment I

Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof; or abridging the freedom of speech, or of the press; 
or the right of the people peaceably to assemble, and to petition the Government for a redress of grievances.

Amendment II

A well regulated Militia, being necessary to the security of a free State, the right of the people to keep and bear Arms, shall not be infringed.

Amendment III

No Soldier shall, in time of peace be quartered in any house, without the consent of the Owner, nor in time of war, but in a manner to be prescribed by law.

Amendment IV

The right of the people to be secure in their persons, houses, papers, and effects, against unreasonable searches and seizures, shall not be violated, and no Warrants shall issue, but upon probable cause, supported by Oath or affirmation, and particularly describing the place to be searched, and the persons or things to be seized.

Amendment V

No person shall be held to answer for a capital, or otherwise infamous crime, unless on a presentment or indictment of a Grand Jury, except in cases arising in the land or naval forces, or in the Militia, when in actual service in time of War or public danger; nor shall any person be subject for the same offence to be twice put in jeopardy of life or limb; nor shall be compelled in any criminal case to be a witness against himself, nor be deprived of life, liberty, or property, without due process of law; nor shall private property be taken for public use, without just compensation.

Amendment VI

In all criminal prosecutions, the accused shall enjoy the right to a speedy and public trial, by an impartial jury of the State and district wherein the crime shall have been committed, which district shall have been previously ascertained by law, and to be informed of the nature and cause of the accusation; to be confronted with the witnesses against him; to have compulsory process for obtaining witnesses in his favor, and to have the Assistance of Counsel for his defence.

Amendment VII

In Suits at common law, where the value in controversy shall exceed twenty dollars, the right of trial by jury shall be preserved, 
and no fact tried by a jury, shall be otherwise re-examined in any Court of the United States, than according to the rules of the common law.

Amendment VIII

Excessive bail shall not be required, nor excessive fines imposed, nor cruel and unusual punishments inflicted.

Amendment IX

The enumeration in the Constitution, of certain rights, shall not be construed to deny or disparage others retained by the people.

Amendment X

The powers not delegated to the United States by the Constitution, nor prohibited by it to the States, are reserved to the States respectively, or to the people.







Inglisce:

Amèndment I

Congress sial mâcue no lahe respecting an establișement of religion, or prohibiting þe frih exercyse þerof; or abriging þe frídom of spiech, or of þe press; 
or þe roiht of the píple piçably to assemble, and to peticione þe Govirnment for a redresse of grievances.

Amèndment II

A uel regulaited Milicia, bying necessairy to þa securetie of a frih Stâte, þe roiht of þe píple to quipe and beire Arms, sial not bie enfringed.

Amèndment III

No Solgior sial, in tîme of pice bie caurtred in eny haûse, uiþaut þa consente of þi Oneur, nor in tîme of guare, but in a manar to bie prescrîbed by lahe.

Amèndment IV

Ћe roiht of þe píple to bie secure in þeir persons, haûses, pâpers, and effecs, against unrísonable cerches and sișures, sial not bie vîolaited, and no Uarants sial isșue, but upón probable cause, soported by Oaþ or affirmâcion, and particularly descrîbing þe plâce to bie cerched, and þe persons or þings to bie sised.

Amèndment V

No person sial bie held to ansare for a capital, or oþreuîs infamus crîme, unless on a presèntment or indîtement of a Grand Jurie, excepte in câsses arîsing in þe land or nâval forces, or in þa Milicia, uene in acțual sêvice in tîme of Guare or public dânger; nor sial eny person bie subject for þe sâm offence to bie tuîce pût in jepardie of lîfe or lim; nor sial bie compelled in eny criminal câsse to bie a uitnace against himself, nor bie deprîved of lîfe, libertie, or própertie, uiþaut due prócess of lahe; nor sial prîvat própertie bie tâcan for public use, uiþaut jost compensâcion.

Amèndment VI

In all criminal prosecúcions, þi accused sial enjoie þe roiht to a spiedy and public trîal, by an imparcial jurie of þe Stâte and district ouerin þe crîme sial have bign comitted, uich district sial have bign prívieusly ascertéined by lahe, and to bie infôrmed of þe nâture and cause of þi accusâcion; to bie confronted uiþ þe uitnaces against him; to have compulsory prócess for obtéining uitnaces in his fâvor, and to have þi Assistance of Cônsil for his defence.

Amèndment VII

In Súts at cómon lahe, ouere þe value in controversie sial excide tuonty dollars, þe roiht of trîal by jurie sial bie presêved, and no facte trîed by a jurie, sial bie oþreuîs rïexamined in any Corte of þi Unîted Stâts, þan according to þe reuls of þe cómon lahe.

Amèndment VIII

Excèssif baile sial not bie requîred, nor excèssif fîns imposed, nor creul and unúșual ponișements inflicted.

Amèndment IX

Ћi enumerâcion in þa Constitúcion, of certan roihts, sial not bie construed to denîe or despârage oþers reteined by þe píple.

Amèndment X

Ћe pouirs not delegaited to þi Unîted Stâts by þa Constitúcion, nor prohibited by it to þe Stâts, are resêved to þe Stâts respectivly, or to þe píple.
