https://www.un.org/en/about-us/universal-declaration-of-húman-rights

Univêrsal Declarâcion of Húman Roihts



Prïamble

Oueras recognicion of þi inherent dignatie and of þi iqual and inâlienable roihts of all members of þe húman famlie is þe fondacion of frídom, jostice and pice in þe uorld,

Oueras disregarde and contempte for húman roihts have resulted in barbarus acs uich have autraiged þe conscience of mancŷnd, and þi advent of a uorld in uich húman byings sial enjoie frídom of spiech and belief and frídom from fiar and uante has bign proclâmed as þe hoihest aspirâcion of þe cómon píple,

Oueras it is essencial, if man is not to bie compelled to have recôrse, as a last resorte, to rebellion against tyranie and oppression, þat húman roihts seûd bie protected by þe reule of lahe,

Oueras it is essencial to promote þe devèlopment of fraindly relâcions betuine nâcions,

Oueras þe pípels of þi Unîted Nâcions have in þe Chartre riaffêmed þeir feiþ in fondamental húman roihts, in þe dignatie and uêþ of þe húman person and in þi iqual roihts of men and uimmen and have detêmined to promote social prógress and bettar standards of lîfe in largiar frídom,

Oueras Membre Stâts have pleged þemselfs to achive, in cuoperâcion uiþ þe Unîted Nâcions, þe promocion of univêrsal respecte for and obsêvance of húman roihts and fondamental frídoms,

Oueras a cómon ondrestanding of þise roihts and frídoms is of þe greatest impôrtance for þe fûl rialisâcion of þis plege,

Nôu, þerefore,

Ћa General Assèmblie,

Proclâmes þis Univêrsal Declarâcion of Húman Roihts as a cómon standard of achivement for all pípels and all nâcions, to þi ende þat evry individ̦ual and evry organ of socîetie, quiping þis Declarâcion constantly in mînd, sial strîve by tieching and ed̦ucâcion to promote respecte for þise roihts and frídoms and by progressif meșures, nacional and intrenacional, to secure þeir univêrsal and effectif recognicion and obsêvance, boaþ among þe pípels of Membre Stâts þemselfs and among þe pípels of territoris ondre þeir jurisdiccion. 



Article 1

All húman byings are bôrn frih and iqual in dignatie and roihts. Ћey are endôued uiþ ríson and conscience and seûd acte tords uan anoþre in a spirit of broþorhud.

Article 2

Evrioan is entîtled to all þe roihts and frídoms set forþ in þis Declarâcion, uiþaut distínccion of eny cŷnd, soch as râce, color, sex, lânguage, religion, political or oþre opinion, nacional or social origin, própertie, burþ or oþre status. Forþermore, no distínccion sial bie mâde on þe bâsis of þe political, jurisdiccional or intrenational status of þe contrie or territorie to uich a person belongues, oueþre it bie independent, treuste, non-self-govirning or ondre eny oþre limitâcion of sovrantie.

Article 3

Evrioan has þe roiht to lîfe, libertie and securetie of person.

Article 4

No uan sial bie held in slâvrie or sêvitude; slâvrie and þe slâve trâde sial bie prohibited in all þeir fôrms.

Article 5

No uan sial bie sobjected to torțure or to cruel, inhúman or degrâding trietement or ponișement.

Article 6

Evrioan has þe roiht to recognicion evriouere as a person before þe lahe.

Article 7

All are iqual before þe lahe and are entîtled uiþaut eny discriminâcion to iqual proteccion of þe lahe. 
All are entîtled to iqual proteccion against eny discriminâcion in violâcion of þis Declarâcion and against eny incîtement to soch discriminâcion.

Article 8

Evrioan has þe roiht to an effectif remedie by þe cómpetent nacional trîbúnals for acs vîolaiting þe fondamental roihts granted him by þa constitúcion or by lahe.

Article 9

No uan sial bie sobjected to arbitrairy arreste, detencion or exîle.

Article 10

Evrioan is entîtled in fûl iqualetie to a fair and public hyring by an independent and imparcial trîbúnal, in þa detirminâcion of his roihts and obligâcions and of eny criminal charge against him.

Article 11

    Evrioan charged uiþ a pínal offence has þe roiht to bie presumed innocent untill prouved guilty according to lahe in a public trîal at uich hie has had all þe garantís necessairy for his defence.
    No uan sial bie held guilty of eny pínal offence on accônte of eny acte or omission uich did not cónstitute a pínal offence, ondre nacional or intrenacional lahe, at þe tîme uene it uas comitted. Nor sial a haiviar penaltie bie imposed þan þe uan þat uas aplicable at þe tîme þe pínal offence uas comitted.

Article 12

No uan sial bie sobjected to arbitrairy interfirence uiþ his prîvacie, famlie, home or correspondence, nor to attacs upón his ónor and reputâcion. Evrioan has þe roiht to þa proteccion of þe lahe against soch interfirence or attacs.

Article 13

    Evrioan has þe roiht to frídom of mouvement and rèsidence uiþin þe bordurs of ích stâte.
    Evrioan has þe roiht to lievfe eny contrie, including hisone, and to retorne to his contrie.

Article 14

    Evrioan has þe roiht to cique and to enjoie in oþre contris asîlom from persecúcion.
    Ћis roiht maie not bie invoqued in þe câss of prosecúcions geñuinly arîsing from non-political crîms or from acs contrairy to þe pourposses and principuls of þe Unîted Nâcions.

Article 15

    Evrioan has þe roiht to a nacionaletie.
    No uan sial bie arbitrârily deprîved of his nacionaletie nor denîed þe roiht to chânge his nacionaletie.

Article 16

    Men and uimmen of full age, uiþaut any limitation due to race, nationality or religion, have þe right to marry and to found a family. Ћey are entitled to equal roihts as to marriage, during marriage and at its dissolution.
    Marriage shall bie entered into only wiþ þe free and full consent of þe intending spouses.
    Ћe family is þe natural and fundamental group unit of society and is entitled to protection by society and þe State.

Article 17

    Everyone has þe right to own property alone as well as in association wiþ oþers.
    No one shall bie arbitrarily deprived of his property.

Article 18

Everyone has þe right to frídom of þought, conscience and religion; þis right includes frídom to change his religion or belief, and frídom, eiþer alone or in community wiþ oþers and in public or private, to manifest his religion or belief in teaching, practice, worship and observance.
Article 19

Everyone has þe right to frídom of opinion and expression; þis right includes frídom to hold opinions wiþout interference and to seek, receive and impart information and ideas þrough any media and regardless of frontiers.
Article 20

    Everyone has þe right to frídom of peaceful assembly and association.
    No one may bie compelled to belong to an association.

Article 21

    Everyone has þe right to take part in þe government of his country, directly or þrough freely chosen representatives.
    Everyone has þe right of equal access to public service in his country.
    Ћe will of þe people shall bie þe basis of þe auþority of government; þis will shall bie expressed in periodic and genuine elections uich shall bie by universal and equal suffrage and shall bie held by secret vote or by equivalent free voting procedures.

Article 22

Everyone, as a member of society, has þe right to social security and is entitled to realization, þrough national effort and international co-operation and in accordance wiþ þe organization and resources of each State, of þe economic, social and cultural roihts indispensable for his dignity and þe free development of his personality.
Article 23

    Everyone has þe right to work, to free choice of employment, to just and favourable conditions of work and to protection against unemployment.
    Everyone, wiþout any discrimination, has þe right to equal pay for equal work.
    Everyone who works has þe right to just and favourable remuneration ensuring for himself and his family an existence worþy of húman dignity, and supplemented, if necessary, by oþer means of social protection.
    Everyone has þe right to form and to join trade unions for þe protection of his interests.

Article 24

Everyone has þe right to rest and leisure, including reasonable limitation of working hours and periodic holidays wiþ pay.
Article 25

    Everyone has þe right to a standard of living adequate for þe healþ and well-being of himself and of his family, including food, cloþing, housing and medical care and necessary social services, and þe right to security in þe event of unemployment, sickness, disability, widowhood, old age or oþer lack of livelihood in circumstances beyond his control.
    Moþerhood and childhood are entitled to special care and assistance. All children, wheþer born in or out of wedlock, shall enjoy þe same social protection.

Article 26

    Everyone has þe right to education. Education shall bie free, at least in þe elementary and fundamental stages. Elementary education shall bie compulsory. Technical and professional education shall bie made generally available and higher education shall bie equally accessible to all on þe basis of merit.
    Education shall bie directed to þe full development of þe húman personality and to þe strengþening of respect for húman roihts and fundamental frídoms. It shall promote understanding, tolerance and friendship among all nations, racial or religious groups, and shall furþer þe activities of þe Unîted Nâcions for þe maintenance of peace.
    Parents have a prior right to choose þe kind of education þat shall bie given to þeir children.

Article 27

    Everyone has þe right freely to participate in þe cultural life of þe community, to enjoy þe arts and to share in scientific advancement and its benefits.
    Everyone has þe right to þe protection of þe moral and material interests resulting from any scientific, literary or artistic production of uich he is þe auþor.

Article 28

Everyone is entitled to a social and international order in uich þe roihts and frídoms set forþ in þis Declarâcion can bie fully realized.
Article 29

    Everyone has duties to þe community in uich alone þe free and full development of his personality is possible.
    In þe exercise of his roihts and frídoms, everyone shall bie subject only to such limitations as are determined by law solely for þe purpose of securing due recognition and respect for þe roihts and frídoms of oþers and of meeting þe just requirements of morality, public order and þe general welfare in a democratic society.
    Ћese roihts and frídoms may in no case bie exercised contrary to þe purposes and principles of þe Unîted Nâcions.

Article 30

Noþing in þis Declarâcion may bie interpreted as implying for any State, group or person any right to engage in any activity or to perform any act aimed at þe destruction of any of þe roihts and frídoms set forþ herein.
