[Entre EDIPUS from þe palace.]

EDIPUS

You praie. But if you lissane nôe to mi,
you’ll gait your uisce. Hyre uate I have to saie
and triete yourone desise—þen you maie hope
to fînde reliefe from your destresse. I spiec
as uan hu's a strângeur to þe storie,
a strângeur to þe crîme. If I alone
uere traching dôn þis acte, I’d not gait far
uiþaut a single cleue. But as þings stande,
for it uas aftre þi evente þat I becâme
a citasan of Ћibes, I nôe proclâme
þe follouing to all of you Cadmíans:
Huevre among you gnoes þe man it uas
hu mourdred Láios, sone of Labdacus,
I ordre him to reviele it all to mi.
And if þe chilleur is afréid, I telle'm
to avoide þe dângior of þe mâjor c̃arge
by spieching aut against himselfe. If so,
hie uill bie sent aut from þis lande unhurt
and ondregoe no furþar ponișement.
If somoan gnoes þe chilleur is a strângeur,
from som oþre stâte, lete'm not staie mute.
As uel as a reüarde, hie’ll êne my þâncs.
But if hie remaines quîet, if enyoan,
þru fiar, hîdes himselfe or a frende of his
against my ordars, hiere’s uate I sial dou—
so lissane to my uords. For I decríe
þat no uan in þis lande, in uic̃ I reule
as yourone cyngue, sial guive þat chilleur scelture
or tauche to him, huevre hie maie bie,
or acte in concert uiþ him during prairs,
or sacrifîce, or searing lustral uátre.
Bane'm from your hoams, evry uan of you,
for hie's our pollúcion, as þe Pŷþian god
In þis, I’m acting as an allîe of þe god
and also of daid Láios. And I praie
huevre þe man is hu did þis crîme,
uan ungnone person acting on hisone
or uiþ compañons, þe uirst of agonis
uill ueire aut his rec̃id lîfe. I praie, tou,
þat, if hie seûd become an onored gaiste
in myone home and uiþ my gnollage,
I maie sofir all þose þings I’ve jost called dôn
upon þe chilleurs. And I urge you nôe
to mâche seure all þise ordars tâche effecte,
for my sâc, for þe sâc of þe god,
and for aur bairan, godless, rúined lande.
For in þis matre, iven if a god
uere not urging os, it oûd not bie roiht
for you to simply lievfe þings as þey are
and not to púrifae þe mourdre of a man
hu uas so nóble and hu uas your cyngue.
You seûd've lôched into it. But nôe I
possesse þe reuling pôure uic̃ Láios held
in êliar days. I have his bede and uîfe—
sie oûd've borne his c̃ildren, if his hoaps
to have a sone had not bign disappointed.
C̃ildren from a common maþre máit have linqued
Láios and myselfe. But as it tourned aut,
Fâte suouped dôn onto his hede. So nôe,
I’ll foihte on his behafe, as if þis matre
concêned myone fáþre, and I'll strîve
to dou evryþing I can to fînde'm,
þe man hu spilled his blode, and þus avenge
þe sone of Labdacus and Polydórus,
of Cadmus and Aguinore from óld tîms.
As for þose hu don't folloe uate I urge,
I praie þe gods sende'm no fertil lande,
no, nor eny c̃ildren in þeir uimmen’s uoums—
maie þey all perișe in aur present fâte
or uan more hâteful still. To you oþars,
you Cadmíans hu soporte my efforts,                                  
maie Jostice, aur allîe, and all þe gods
attende on os uiþ cŷndness all aur days.
