PRIESTE

Edipus, reuleur of my nâtif lande,
you sihe hôe píple hiere of evry âge
are croac̃ing dôn arônd your altars,
som flegelings bârely stròng enofh to floihe
and oþars bent by âge, uiþ priests as uel—                       
for I’m prieste of Zeus—and þise uans hiere,
þe pic of all aur youþ. Ћi oþre groups
sitte in þe marchet plâce uiþ sopplîant branc̃es
or else in front of Pállas’ tue s̗rîns,                                            
or ouere Ismínieus prophicyhes uiþ fŷre.
For aur citie, as you yourselfe can sihe,
is badly seacan—sie cannot raise her hede
above þe depþs of so moc̃ surging daiþ.
Desise infecs frute blossoms in aur lande,
desise infecs aur herds of grâsing cattle,                            
mâcs uimmen in lâbre louse þeir c̃ildren,
and daidly pèstilence, þat fîery god,
suoupes dôn to blaste þe citie, emptying
þe Haûse of Cadmus, and filles blac Hâdis                                  
uiþ groans and hôuels. Ћise c̃ildren and myselfe
nôe sitte hiere by your home, not becase uie þinche
you’re iqual to þe gods. No. Uie joge you
þe first of men in uate hapanes in þis lîfe
and in aur interaccions uiþ þe gods.
For you câme hiere, to aur Cadméian citie,                               
and frihed os from þe tribute uie uere paying
to þat cruel singuer—and yet you gnou
no more þan uie did and had not bign tauht.
In þeir storis, þe píple testifae
hôe, uiþ gods’ helpe, you gâve os bac aur lîfs.
So nôe, Edipus, aur cyngue, moast pôuerful                                    
in all men’s eais, uie’re hiere as sopplîants,
all beguing you to fînde som helpe for os,
eiþre by lissaning to a hevonly voice,
or lêning from som oþre húman bying.                           
For, in my vue, men of expírience
provîde advîce þat guives þe best results.
So nôe, you best of men, raise up aur stâte.
Acte to consolidait your fâme, for nôe,
þâncs to your eigreness in êliar days,
þe citie celebraits you as its sâvieur.
Don’t lete aur memorie of your reuling hiere                                     
declâre þat uie uere first set roiht again
and lâtar fell. No. Restóre aur citie,
so þat it standes secure. In þose tîms past                          
you broht os joie—and uiþ gûd omens, tou.
Bie þat sâm man todaie. If you’re to reule
as you are douing nôe, bettar to bie cyngue
in a lande of men þan in a desert.
An empty scipe or city ualle is noþing
if no men seare a lîfe togaiþre þere.
