Oîe English is so hard to lêne

English: The bandage was wound around the wound.
Inglisce: Ћe bandage uas uaund arônd þe uound.

English: The farm was cultivated to produce produce.
Inglisce: Ћe farme uas cultivaited to produce próduce.

English: The dump was so full that the workers had to refuse more refuse.
Inglisce: Ћe dompe uas so fûl þat þe uercors had to refuse more trasce.

English: We must polish the Polish furniture shown at the store.
Inglisce: Uie must polișe þe pólisce fourniţure seone at þe store.

English: He could lead if he would get the lead out.
Inglisce: Hie coûd lide if hie oûd gait þe lead aut.

English: The soldier decided to desert his tasty dessert in the desert.
Inglisce: Ћe solgior decîded to deserte his tâsty desêrt in þe desert.

English: Since there is no time like the present, he thought it was time to present the present to his girlfriend.
Inglisce: Since þere's no tîme lîc þe present, hie þoht it uas tîme to presente þe present to his gurlfrend.

English: A bass was painted on the head of the bass drum.
Inglisce: A bass uas painted on þe hede of þe bâss drome.

English: When shot at, the dove dove into the bushes.
Inglisce: Uene siot at, þe dove doave into þe busces.

English: I did not object to the object which he showed me.
Inglisce: I did not objecte to þi object uich hie seoed mi.

English: The insurance was invalid for the invalid in his hospital bed.
Inglisce: Ћi inseurance uas invàlid for þe sic man in his hospital bede.

English: There was a row among the oarsmen about who would row.
Inglisce: Ћere uas a rôe among þi aursmen abaut hu oûd reoe.

English: They were too close to the door to close it.
Inglisce: Ћey uere tou clôss to þe doure to close it.

English: The buck does funny things when the does (females) are present.
Inglisce: Ћe buc does fonny þings uene þe doas (fimels) are present.

English: A seamstress and a sewer fell down into a sewer line.
Inglisce: A sÿmstress and a soüeur fell dôn into a suarlign.

English: To help with planting, the farmer taught his sow to sow.
Inglisce: To helpe uiþ planting, þe farmeur tauht his sôe to soe.

English: The wind was too strong to wind the sail around the mast.
Inglisce: Ћe uind uas tou stròng to uînde þe seile arônd þe mast.

English: Upon seeing the tear in her painting she shed a tear.
Inglisce: Upon sihing þe teire in her peinting sie sced a tiar.

English: I had to subject the subject to a series of tests.
Inglisce: I had to sobjecte þe sobject to a síris of tests.

English: How can I intimate this to my most intimate friend?
Inglisce: Hôe can I intimait þis to my moast intimat frend?

English: The diners dined at the diner for their dinner.
Inglisce: Ћe dîneurs dîned at þe dînor for þeir dinor.

English: She longed to lunge at an opportunity to lounge for a long time.
Inglisce: Sie longued to longe at an opportunetie to lônge for a lòng tîme.
