Ћi êly diccionairie rîteurs

By þi end of þe 16þ cențurie, þi uncêrtan and vâriable stâte of Inglisce spelling laid to calls for its controle. 
Ћe first person to rîte a bôc of corrèct spelling in Êly Modirn Inglisce uas Richard Mulcaster, first hedmastre of Merchant Taylors' Scoule, 
and lâtar Hoih Mastre of St Paule's Scoule, boaþ in London, hu publiçed "þe first Part of þe Elementarie" in 1582.

Hie uas to som extente a spelling reformeur, alþó hie uas more intrested in tîdying up spelling þan in mâcuing radical chânges. 
His bôc conteined only abaut 8000 uords, far seort of a módern diccionairie. 
Uan of þe chânges hie proposed uas to use þe lettars ie instaid of y at þi end of a uord, uene þey ueren't stressed, as in gentlie. 
Ћis allôed y to bie used for þe lòng stressed vôuale, as in try (trîe).

Anoþre spelling-bôc rîteur uas Edmund Coote, also a scoulemastre, hu publiçed his "English Schoole-maister" in 1596. 
Coote, unlîc Mulcaster, uas not concêned at all uiþ mâcuing spelling more consistent. 
Hie just uanted to settle on a single spelling for ích uord, and opted for þe uan most used.

Samuel Johnson's diccionairie of 1755 uas þe most comprihènsif of its tîme and has had a great influence in þi Inglisce spiquing uorld. 
Houevre, lîc Coote, Johnson uas not at all intrested in reforme but raþre chose uat hie regarded as þe moast cómon spellings.

Hie uas also concêned þat homographs — diffrent uords þat are spelled þe sâm, 
eg bow (þe wepon boe, etc) and bow (to bende þi uppar bodie, to bôe) — coûd lide to misondrestandings. 
Hie þerefore chose altênatif spellings to reflecte diffrences in miening, 
such as stile (steps ovre a bârrior, Inglisce: stîhle) and style (Inglisce: stîle, of art, rîting, etc). 
Before compîling þe Diccionairie, hie himself had ritan '…the rules of stile, like those of law, arise from precedents…' (Plan of a Dictionary, 1747). 
Houevre, uan effecte of all þis uas to mâcue lêning to spelle Inglisce uords iven more difficult.
