Ћi êly diccionarie r̃aiteurs

By þi end of þe 16þ cențurie, þi uncêrtan and vâriable stâte of Inglisce spelling laied to calls for its controle. 
Ћe first person to r̃aite a bôc of corrèct spelling in Êly Modern Inglisce uas Richard Mulcaster, first hedmastre of Merchant Taylors' Scoule, 
and lâtar Hoih Mastre of St Paule's Scoule, boaþ in London, hu publiçed "þe first Parte of þi Elemèntarie" in 1582.

Hie uas to som extente a spelling reformeur, alþó hie uas more intrested in tîdying up spelling þan in mâching radical c̃ainges. 
His bôc conteined only abaut 8000 uords, far seort of a modern diccionarie. 
Uan of þe c̃ainges hie proposed uas to use þe lettars ie instaid of y at þi end of a uord, uene þey ueren't stressed, as in gentlie. 
Ћis allôed y to bie used for þe lòng stressed vôle, as in try (trîe).

Anoþre spelling-bôc rîteur uas Edmund Coote, also a scoulemastre, hu publiçed his "English Schoole-maister" in 1596. 
Coote, unlîc Mulcaster, uas not concêned at all uiþ mâching spelling more consistent. 
Hie just uanted to settle on a single spelling for eic̃ uord, and opted for þe uan moast used.

Samuel Johnson's diccionarie of 1755 uas þe most comprihensif of its tîme and has had a great influence in þi Inglisce spieching uorld. 
Hôuevre, lîc Coote, Johnson uas not at all intrested in reforme but raþre c̃ose uat hie regarded as þe moast common spellings.

Hie uas also concêned þat homographs — diffrent uords þat are spelled þe sâm, 
eg bow (þe wepon boe, etc) and bow (to bende þi uppar bodie, to bôe) — coûd lide to misondrestandings. 
Hie þerefore c̃ose altênatif spellings to reflecte diffrences in miening, 
soc̃ as stile (steps ovre a bârrior, Inglisce: stîhle) and style (Inglisce: stîle, of art, r̃aiting, etc). 
Before compîling þe diccionarie, hie himself had r̃itan '…the rules of stile, like those of law, arise from precedents…' (Plan of a Dictionary, 1747). 
Hôuevre, uan effecte of all þis uas to mâche lêning to spelle Inglisce uords iven more difficult.
