OEDIPUS

Since you ask me, yes. I don’t deny that.


CREON

And you two rule this land as equals?


OEDIPUS

Whatever she desires, she gets from me.


CREON

And am I not third, equal to you both?


OEDIPUS

That’s what makes your friendship so deceitful.


CREON

No, not if you think this through, as I do.
First, consider this. In your view, would anyone
prefer to rule and have to cope with fear
rather than live in peace, carefree and safe,
if his powers were the same? I, for one,
have no natural desire to be king
in preference to performing royal acts.
The same is true of any other man
whose understanding grasps things properly.
For now I get everything I want from you,
but without the fear. If I were king myself,
I’d be doing many things against my will.
So how can being a king be sweeter to me
than royal power without anxiety?
I am not yet so mistaken in my mind
that I want things which bring no benefits.
Now all men are my friends and wish me well,
and those who seek to get something from you
now flatter me, since I’m the one who brings
success in what they want. So why would I
give up such benefits for something else?
A mind that’s wise will not turn treacherous.
It’s not my nature to love such policies.
And if another man pursued such things,
I would not work with him. I could not bear to.
If you want proof of this, then go to Delphi.
Ask the prophet if I brought back to you
exactly what was said. At that point,
if you discover I have planned something,
that I’ve conspired with Teiresias,
then arrest me and have me put to death,
not merely on your own authority,
but on mine as well, a double judgment.
Do not condemn me on an unproved charge.
It’s not fair to judge these things by guesswork,
to assume bad men are good or good men bad.
I say a man who throws away a noble friend
is like a man who parts with his own life,
the thing most dear to him. Give it some time.
Then you will see clearly, since only time
can fully validate a man who’s true.
A bad man is exposed in just one day.
