[The Second Messenger enters from the palace.]

SECOND MESSENGER

O you most honoured citizens of Thebes,
what actions you will hear about and see,
what sorrows you will bear, if, as natives here,
you are still loyal to the house of Labdacus!
I do not think the Ister or the Phasis rivers
could cleanse this house. It conceals too much
and soon will bring to light the vilest things,
brought on by choice and not by accident.
What we do to ourselves brings us most pain.


CHORUS LEADER

The calamities we knew about before
were hard enough to bear. What can you say
to make them worse?


SECOND MESSENGER

I’ll waste no words—know this—noble Jocasta, our queen, is dead.


CHORUS LEADER

That poor unhappy lady! How did she die?


SECOND MESSENGER

She killed herself. You did not witness it,
so you’ll be spared the worst of what went on.
But from what I recall of what I saw
you’ll learn how that poor woman suffered.
She left here frantic and rushed inside,
the fingers of both hands clenched in her hair.
She ran through the hall straight to her marriage bed.
She went in, slamming both doors shut behind her
and crying out to Laius, who’s been a corpse
a long time now. She was remembering
that child of theirs born many years ago—
the one who killed his father, who left her
to conceive cursed children with that son.
She lay moaning beside the bed, where she,
poor woman, had given birth twice over—
a husband from a husband, children from a child.
How she died after that I don’t fully know.
With a scream Oedipus came bursting in.
He would not let us see her suffering,
her final pain. We watched him charge around,
back and forth. As he moved, he kept asking us
to give him a sword, as he tried to find
that wife who was no wife—whose mother’s womb
had given birth to him and to his children.
As he raved, some immortal power led him on—
no human in the room came close to him.
With a dreadful howl, as if someone
had pushed him, he leapt at the double doors,
bent the bolts by force out of their sockets,
and burst into the room. Then we saw her.
