Nouns and Verbs in Inglish: aie, eie

In Inglish, verbs that end in -aie or -eie follow specific patterns in their conjugation and noun derivation. 
Both -aie and -eie verbs alter their endings in the progressive tense while maintaining certain consistencies in noun formation.

Verb Conjugation Patterns:

    Present Tense: The verbs end in -aie or -eie for most pronouns.
    Third-person singular present:
        -aie verbs retain the full -aie ending and add -s (e.g., plaies, delaies).
        -eie verbs drop the final -e and add -s directly to the -ei (e.g., conveis, obeis).
    Past Tense: 
        -aie verbs: Retain the full -aie and add -d for the past tense (e.g., plaied, delaied).
        -eie verbs: Drop the final -e and add -d (e.g., conveid, obeid).
    Progressive Tense:
        The ending -ie is dropped and replaced by -ying.


-aie Examples:

    Infinitive: ta plaie (to play), ta delaie (to delay), ta praie (to pray)
    Third-person Singular Present: plaies, delaies, praies
    Past Tense: plaied, delaied, praied
    Progressive Tense: playing, delaying, praying

-eie Examples:

    Infinitive: ta conveie (to convey), to obeie (to obey), ta preie (to prey)
    Third-person Singular Present: conveis, obeis, preis
    Past Tense: conveid, obeid, preid
    Progressive Tense: conveying, obeying, preying

Verbs such as to porveie (to purvey) and to sorveie (to survey) maintain stress on the -ey syllable in their progressive forms:

    Progressive Tense: porveying, sorveying


Nouns derived from -aie and -eie verbs retain the -y from the verb stem, ensuring consistency across forms. 
However, some nouns, particularly those derived from -eie verbs, have specialized forms with suffixes like -ance or -ence.

    -aie Examples:
        play, playeur 
        dismay, dismayeur 
        layeur, layor 
        pay, payeur 
        to praie → praire (outlier)
        slayeur 

    -eie Examples:
        preie, sleie, sorveie, porveie
        Some outliers with specialized forms:
            convéiance 
            obéiance 
            porvéiance 


Some verbs, such as ta saye (to say) and ta maye (to may), deviate from the standard patterns.

    to saie:
        Present Tense: sais
        Past Tense: said
        Progressive Tense: saying
        Noun: saie, says

    maye:
        Present Tense: maye
        Past Tense: mîht (no progressive form)
        Noun: mîht (might)